---


---

<hr>
<h2 id="title-c-day-3author-jin-simdate-2019-07-08">title: ‘[C] Day 3’<br>
author: Jin Sim<br>
date: ‘2019-07-08’</h2>
<h2 id="if">IF</h2>
<p>“If-statements” have the following format:</p>
<pre><code>if (statement that is either True or False) {
    code that runs when if-statement's condition is true;
}
</code></pre>
<p>Refer to Challenge #3 from Day 2.<br>
We’ll now solve a similar, more simplified problem using if-statements to demonstrate how if-statements are used.</p>
<pre><code>#include &lt;Windows.h&gt;
#include &lt;stdio.h&gt;

void main() {
    int score;
    
    // Take input for a score
    // 60 or above = Pass
    // Less than 60 = Fail
    printf("Enter a score : ");
    scanf("%d", &amp;score);
    
    if (score &lt; 0 || score &gt; 100) {
        printf("Not a valid score.\n");
    }
    
    if (score &gt;= 0 &amp;&amp; score &lt;= 100 &amp;&amp; score &gt;= 60) {
	    printf("Pass.\n");
    }
    
    if (score &gt;= 0 &amp;&amp; score &lt;= 100 &amp;&amp; score &lt; 60) {
        printf("Fail.\n");
    }
</code></pre>
<p>When the statement within the ( ) of the if-statement is False, the code inside { } doesn’t run and that if-statement is simply ignored.</p>
<p>In the above example, three separate if-statements were used.<br>
While it certainly works, it’s not the most clean or efficient way of writing the code.</p>
<p>There are two other statements that work with the if-statement to make the code more fluid and efficient:</p>
<ul>
<li>else if</li>
<li>else</li>
</ul>
<p>Both “else if” and “else” can only be used after an “if,” and they cannot be used by themselves. They both have similar formats as an if-statement, as shown below:</p>
<pre><code>if (true/false) {
    runs when if-statement's condition is TRUE;
}
else if (true/false) {
    runs when "if's"condition is FALSE AND the "else if's" condition is TRUE
}
else {
    runs when all of the above statements' conditions are FALSE
}
</code></pre>
<p>“else if” is run only when the initial “if” statement <strong>isn’t</strong> run.<br>
“else” is run only when the initial “if” statement and all of the “else if” statements <strong>aren’t</strong> run.</p>
<p>In other words, if the initial if-statement’s condition was true and so the code inside the if-statement was run, then the "else if"s and "else"s aren’t run. Everything below the initial if-statement is simply ignored.</p>

