---
title: '[C] Day 2'
author: Jin Sim
date: '2019-07-05'

---
<h2 id="taking-inputs">Taking Inputs</h2>
<p>To make a program more interesting and useful, taking inputs from the user is crucial.<br>
There are a few ways of taking inputs, but here, the function “scanf()” will be used.</p>
<h3 id="example-">[ Example ]</h3>
<pre><code>#include &lt;Windows.h&gt;
#include &lt;stdio.h&gt;

void main() {
    int num = 0;
    printf("Enter a number : ");
    scanf("%d", &amp;num); // User input will be stored in variable "num"
    
    // Check to see that "num" indeed stores the user input
    printf("num = %d\n", num);	

    system("pause");
}
</code></pre>
<h2 id="variables">Variables</h2>
<h3 id="rules-for-variable-names-">[ Rules for Variable Names ]</h3>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Variable name cannot start with a number</p>
<p>int 3num = 5;		// “3num” cannot be a variable name</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>No special characters, except for ‘_’ (underscore)</p>
<p>int num_3 = 3;</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Case-sensitive</p>
<p>int num_3 = 3;<br>
int Num_3 = 33;<br>
printf("%d, %d", num_3, Num_3)		// would print: “3, 33”</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Keywords cannot be used as variable names</p>
<p>int int = 3;		// X<br>
int if = 4;			// X</p>
</li>
</ol>
<h3 id="challenge-2--switching-values-">[ Challenge #2 : Switching Values ]</h3>
<p>There are two variables, x and y, storing integers of values 10 and 20, respectively. Switch the values between the two variables so that x would now store 20, and y would now store 10.<br>
Try setting x = y and then y = x.<br>
Does this work? If it does/doesn’t, explain why.</p>
<p><strong>Sample Solution :</strong></p>
<pre><code>#include &lt;Windows.h&gt;
#include &lt;stdio.h&gt;

void main() {
    int x = 10;
    int y = 20;
    int z = x;
    
    x = y;
    y = z;
    
    printf("x = %d, y = %d\n", x, y);
    
    system("pause");
}
</code></pre>
<h2 id="more-operators">More Operators</h2>
<h3 id="relational-operators-">[ Relational Operators ]</h3>
<p>“&gt;” : Greater than<br>
“&lt;” : Less than<br>
“&gt;=” : Greater than or equal to<br>
“&lt;=” : Less than or equal to<br>
“==” : Equal to<br>
“!=” : NOT Equal to</p>
<h3 id="logical-operators-">[ Logical Operators ]</h3>
<p><strong>||</strong>	= OR<br>
<strong>&amp;&amp;</strong> = AND</p>
<p><strong>|| (OR)</strong> : True if at least <em>ONE</em> of the conditions is true.<br>
<strong>&amp;&amp; (AND)</strong> : True if <em>ALL</em> of the conditions are true.</p>
<p>True OR True = True<br>
True OR False = True<br>
False OR False = False</p>
<p>True AND True = True<br>
True AND False = False<br>
False AND False = False</p>
<h3 id="challenge-3--pass--fail-">[ Challenge #3 : Pass / Fail ]</h3>
<p>You are taking three courses for this semester. In order to graduate, you need to pass the semester. Passing a semester consists of two conditions:</p>
<ol>
<li>The average grade of the courses must be at least 60.</li>
<li>Even if the average grade is 60 or above, if you get 50 or less in one or more of the courses, you fail the semester.</li>
</ol>
<p>The program should take 3 separate grades from the user and then display either 0 (i.e. fail) or 1 (i.e. pass), according to the two conditions above.</p>
<p><strong>Sample Solution :</strong></p>
<pre><code>#include &lt;Windows.h&gt;
#include &lt;stdio.h&gt;

void main(){
    int s1, s2, s3;
    
    printf("Enter your grade for class 1 : \n");
    scanf("%d", &amp;s1);
    printf("Enter your grade for class 2 : \n");
    scanf("%d", &amp;s2);
    printf("Enter your grade for class 3 : \n");
    scanf("%d", &amp;s3);
    
    int total = s1 + s2 + s3;
    float avg = total / 3.0; 	// Note: (integer) / (float) = (float)
    
    printf("%d\n", avg&gt;=60 &amp;&amp; s1&gt;50 &amp;&amp; s2&gt;50 &amp;&amp; s3&gt;50);
    
    system("pause");
}
</code></pre>

